---
layout: post
title:  "Day 2: Setting up Kubernetes tooling"
date:   2023-01-02
categories: homelab kubernetes
---

## Goals

* Switch homelab's Traefik instance to use static node ports
* Install Kubernetes tooling beyond 
* Refine deployment of blog

## Findings/Results

* Traefik is now using dedicated node ports which will save the step of needing to reconfigure networking when I rebuild the cluster from scratch.
* Extended my development machine setup to include various tools I use for working with Kubernetes including `krew`, `kubectx`, `kubens`, and Stern.
    * :warning: Need to add Helm to this list. I have it in some dev containers and on my servers, but not on my primary development machine.
* This blog is now set to build and deploy with GitHub Actions which was pretty painless with the setup from GitHub. I extended it to include a dev container for local development.
    * :warning: I want to look into customizing the CSS of the blog so it can match my static websites.
* While not in my list of goals I spent a fair amount of time shopping for a few pieces to help extend my current setup. I purchased a few USB 3.1 and HDMI keystone jacks to add to my server rack and some jumper cables to go with them. This will allow me to bring the IO ports on my NUCs to accessible locations which will help me work with them easier. This has been a chore when rebuilding the cluster since I have needed to remove the NUCs from the rack to bring them to my computer for reformatting.
    * I learned about the USB specifications while going down this rabbit hole. I was debating with myself about whether I wanted to get a long USB-C cable to connect the server rack into my desk for this purpose, but that was fairly pricy so I opted to stick with standard USB and HDMI for now. Anything over two meters needs active management or it will not meet basic USB 3 speeds.
